>> Kent C. Dodds: Great, so
now we're gonna be talking about codemods.
Codemods are awesome.
This is where I think, things start to
get really practical because codemods
are often pretty domain specific.
It's like,
we have this internal company module and
we're upgrading from
version one to version two.
And the API changed from
callbacks to promises.
So now we need to find all of the
instances where we're using old API and
change that from callbacks to promises.
It's something you can totally do.
Pretty much everything about code mods,
so I should step back.
Codemods started gaining popularity
in the last year or two.
And the tool that is kinda the de facto
for codemods is called JS code shift.
And I will paste a link to this
in the chat here really quick.
So this is a really awesome tool,
it's a CLI and
you provide a codemod which you can create
even in share choose JS code shift and
it has a pretty different API
from what we've seen before.
It still exports the function and
gives you a file and an API.
The API has JS code shift on it and
this is your jQuery thing right here.
So you select the file source and
then you do find and for
each and all kinds of interesting
things to make changes.
I love the people who build this tool and
I love that this tool exists but
I've tried like six or seven times to use
this tool and I can never figure it out.
So, to me it's just hard.
I like the visitor pattern of Babel a lot.
I think it's a really nice way
to manipulate and look at ASTs.
And so there's recently,
I actually gave my beginners AST talk.
And as part of that,
I decided to see what would
the tooling like to use
Babel to do codemods.
And it turns out it was really easy.
I've got a little
ten-minute video on YouTube
that I think I linked here at the end
where I demonstrate how to do this.
And then somebody at Square
built this babel-codemod tool.
And so
now you can just use codemod --plugin,
you'd specify your plugin, and
then your path to your files.
And you can even use like
Babel in your plug in and
it'll require Babel register and stuff.
But here, this would run the my-plugin
against the whole source directory.
And what happens is for
each file in the source directory,
it will run your plug-in on it and
take the output of that and
save it to the file, and so
where Babel plug-ins are generally for
compile time.
They don't actually finish the source,
they just change what you're shipping.
Codemods are intended to change the source
code so that you can migrate away from
an old API, or something like that,
old testing framework, whatever.
And they're super duper cool.
And because it uses babel, or
because we can use Babel to do this,
you pretty much know every thing you
need to know about building this,
it's just taking the time getting used
to the APIs and that kinda thing.
And so, instead of doing a full-on
AFC Expo Demo, I have for
the other two concepts,
I'm just going to show you one briefly,
I'm not gonna show you how it all works,
but
just give you an idea use case
that is pretty cool to codemod.
So last night I rewrote all
of these demos and exercises.
And they're so much better than
what you would have had to endure.
It still would have been cool, but
it would have been maybe more confusing.
But one of the demos, or actually I think
it's one of the exercises, the very last
exercise is a really cool codemod that
I think we should probably open source.
And what it is is I can
show you the text fixtures.
Here we have this file here, our main.js.
And it's importing some things
from the file system, or
from the like corn node modules.
This is commonjs module but
it's still using ES6 imports.
This is another commonjs module.
This one actually uses both commonjs and
ES modules.
So we have this big mix of commonjs and
And the way that things are developing,
it appears to be like 99% sure that
when ES modules land into node,
you will not be able to do this.
You can only do a default import and that
default import will have like a resolve so
the way that you'd have to write
this is it'd have to be path and
then you'd say const  = path.
Or you just do path.resolve everywhere.
So that's kind of unfortunate, especially
since there's tons of code out in
the world that's doing this pattern where
you have common JS modules, and you're
importing them like they're ES modules
with import specifiers and all that stuff.
So this is great use case for
us to build a codemod that can
upgrade the entire community.
And what's cool about this codemod and one
of the reasons why I wanted to show you is
that the power of Babel is not limited to
your little function that you provide it.
It's running in node.
And one of the requirements is
that it runs synchronously.
You can't do any asynchronous stuff.
But outside of that,
pretty much anything's game.
And we kind of abuse that for
our purposes here.
So really quickly I'll just show you th,
actually I can't.
I can't show you the result,
cuz I deleted the snapshot.
But I think you get the idea of
what is supposed to happened here.
So I'll show you what
the plugin actually looks like.
So we visit import declarations.
All those things were import declarations.
And, actually,
I should have that open just to reference.
So, all these things, import declarations.
And we split them up to default,
name, spaced, and named.
So this is default, this is named,
and this is namespaced.
Split those up, and
we also get the source.
So this would be the source.
And then we determine whether or
not, let's see, I'll skip over that.
We determine whether or
not the module that these are being
imported from is a common JS module.
The way that we do that,
I won't show you, but
the way that that happens is first
we see is this a built-in module?
And there's a known module that has
a function that says whether or
not something's a built-in module,
which is kinda cool.
If it is then that's definitely CommonJS.
If it is like a relative mantra or
something, we actually read the file.
I'll show you, it's kinda cool.
We read the file in and
right here we get the contents and
then I use Babel to parse the contents and
I get the AST and then I traverse the AST.
So I'm doing, inside of my Babel plug-in,
I'm starting a whole new traversal.
And this right here is
the visitor pattern over again.
Pretty wild, I love that this is possible.
And if it has an export specifier
of any kind, it's using ES modules.
And that means that
exports as an ES module,
so it's not CommonJS.
And then there's the concept of mixed and
stuff like that.
None of this stuff is super pregnant, but
hopefully you're following along pretty
well to get an idea of
what's possible here.
And so based off of whether
there's a default specifier,
we'll use that variable name.
Otherwise we'll make a new one.
And then for each one of our coingest
modules that are using import specifiers
or name spaced imports, we're gonna go
update not only the import itself but
also any code that's using those names.
And so this is where we're
getting reference paths from
the binding of that name.
So this is similar to the ES int stuff
we did with the git two card variables.
We're getting all the references
to this import and
updating them all to use this,
our new finangled thing.
So anyway, if you didn't really
totally follow what's going on here,
don't worry too much about it.
Just know that doing pretty
complex transformations
is a lot easier when you can use ASTs.
And it's really fun and exciting and
yeah, ASTs are awesome.